---
layout: post
title:  Reading List - Dec 2020 + 2021
date:   2020-11-22 08:58:36 +0800
categories: reading
---
When thinking about what books I want to put on my reading list for the next 13 months, I circle back to what I want to achieve from these lists. Particularly, for non-fiction books, how can they help me achieve the goals I want to achieve.

Key user stories:

1. As a reader of books, I want to include fiction books in my reading list, so that I am able to explore the more creative aspects of writing. For this, I propose that 1 in 3 books I read be fiction books.

2. As someone who will have excess time in December / January after the end of school, I want to set myself the goal of 2 books a week, which comes up to 8 books between mid-December and mid-January. Thereafter, 1 book every two weeks would be an ambitious target. That leaves me with 2 x 4 + 25 * 1 = 33 books. So 11 fiction and 22 non-fiction.

3. Now for the key goals I want to achieve in my life - in order of priority, I would state:
- Becoming better at understanding technology and products (3)
- Furthering my spiritual pursuits and figuring out what makes me happy (2)
- Becoming better at understanding how to plan my finances (2)
- Becoming more worldly in understanding socio-political dynamics (2)
- Learning from life lessons from people who have been there and done that (3)
- Learning how to live life (3)  
<br>
4. Based off the above, I assign 22 books across these 5 categories. It seems like I am only prepared to list 15 books so far - I guess that leaves me space to choose 7 random books based on recommendations / lists. 

5. For fiction books, I have no clear idea how I will be selecting them. I guess, I will base it off what I see in the NY Times list - not very sophisticated but oh well.

With that, here are my lists:

**Non-Fiction Books**
*Becoming better at understanding how to launch great products (3)*
* Blitzscaling
* Founder's Dilemma
* Lean Analytics: Use Data to Build a Better Startup Faster

*Understanding how to lead and manage people(2)*
* Making of a Manager
* Empowered : Ordinary People, Extraordinary Products
* Humanocracy: Creating Organizations as Amazing as the People Inside Them

*Understanding more about the general technology scene(3)*
* The Four: The Hidden DNA of Amazon, Apple, Facebook, and Google
* Hacking Growth: How Today's Fastest-Growing Companies Drive Breakout Success 
* The Lean Startup: How Today's Entrepreneurs Use Continuous Innovation to Create Radically Successful Businesses
* The Innovators: How a Group of Hackers, Geniuses, and Geeks Created the Digital Revolution
* Facebook: The Inside Story
* The Future is Faster Than You Think: How Converging Technologies are Transforming Business, Industries, and Our Lives

*Becoming better at understanding how to invest / plan my finances (2)*
* Angel: How to Invest in Technology Startups—Timeless Advice from an Angel Investor Who Turned $100,000 into $100,000,000 
* Random Walk Down Wall Street

*Becoming more worldly in understanding socio-political dynamics (2)*
* Boom and Bust: A Global History of Financial Bubbles
* The Costs of Inequality in Latin America
* The Cost of Free Money: How Unfettered Capital Threatens Our Economic Future

*Understanding more about my world*
* PAP vs. PAP

*Learning from life lessons from people who have been there and done that (3)*
* The Hard Thing About Hard Things: Building a Business When There Are No Easy Answers

*Learning how to live life (3)*  
* The Algebra of Happiness
* Explaining Humans: What Science Can Teach Us about Life, Love and Relationships, by Camilla Pang
* Digital Minimalism: On Living Better with Less Technology 

*Widening my intellectual curiosity (3)*
* Gödel, Escher, Bach
* The World According to Physics
* Brief History of Time
* The Biggest Bluff: How I Learned to Pay Attention, Take Control and Master the Odds

Fiction Books

*From Financial Times Books List*
* The Paladin, by David Ignatius
* Three-Fifths, by John Vercher,
* Tender Is the Flesh, by Agustina Bazterrica
* Notes From Small Planets, by Nate Crowley
* Hold Up the Sky, by Cixin Liu